# Working group meeting 20200805

## Attendees

- Geoffrey Biggs
- Dereck Wonnacott
- Jeffrey Johnson
- Philipp Robbel
- Suvo Ganguli

## Working group repository and website revision

The ROS 2 TSC has approved a new governance document template for working groups.
This template has been applied to the Safety-Critical Systems Working Group, including re-organising the repository.

We will briefly review the content of the governance document to ensure all participants are familiar with it.
We will also discuss any changes we wish to make for our specific working group.

## Requirements work progress review

- Tenaris is working to improve the integration with GitLubHab workflows.
- The approach being used to link between Doorstop requirements and GitLab is labels, but there may be problems with the number of labels getting too large to manage. This is something we will need to look into in the medium term.
- Dumping of artefacts from GitLab will be done very soon now by Tenaris.
- We still have a list of annoyances in Doorstop that we need to look at in the future.
- The requirements playground repository will be moved to the safety working group.
- We will soon need to think about how to work with both GitHub and GitLab, as most of the ROS world lives in GitHub.

## Software watchdogs progress review

- CI will be set up soon. We need to start writing tests.
- The navigation2 group is interested in using the watchdogs instead of the ROS 2 port of the Bond library.

## Contracts library

- C++ still lacks contracts in the language, but Jeffrey Johnson has implemented a library that provides contracts.
- It is still under development but it is being tested on a node from Autoware.Auto.
- We will probably adopt this library into the safety working group, in order to more closely integrate it with the watchdogs library and the requiremens work.

## Action items

- Geoff to set up a GitHub organisation for the safety working group's repositories.
- Geoff to organise moving the requirements playground repository into GitHub.
- Geoff to organise a space for the contracts library at GitHub.
