# Working group meeting 20200430

## How Apex.AI handles requirements (Mehul Sagar)

- Apex.AI does their requirements tracing using Jama.
- Standards require that each requirement must be traced downstream to code and to a verification method (e.g. a test), and upstream to where the requirement comes from (e.g. a safety concept, a stakeholder's request).
  - Apex.AI traces to GitLab for implementation and Testrail for verification of implementation, as well as some alternative verification methods for requirements that are not directly implemented.
- For certification purposes, it is necessary to distinguish between nominal requirements and safety-related requirements.
- Jama provides a REST API that can be used for integration with other related tools, such as the bug tracker (e.g. GitLab) and the test management tool (e.g. Testrail).
- Jama can generate reports on whether requirements are satisfied by looking at data from the test management tool, etc.
- Jama provides requirement review functionality, similar to code reviews of GitHub and GitLab (requirement review and approval is an essential step).


## The trice requirements tracing tool (Florian Friesdorf, Marko Durkovic)

- A requirements tool that keeps all its information in GitLab - they aimed to explore what a requirements management tool would look like if you built it around GitLab.
- Requirements are stored in text files, with each file being numbered. Requirements in the files are also numbered.
- Issues reference requirements by number, and merge requests are tied to issues, providing traceability.
- Lines relevant for a test are identified by running each test individually and recording the coverage of that test.
- Functional requirements are traced to lines of code.
- The tool in its current form would not be of much value; it is more of a first assessment. It would need some work to make it useful.
- The authors are fully supportive of open sourcing it, but it needs to be released along with explanations of how it works, what it's doing internally, fixes to make it work, etc.

## Discussion

- What is our goal?
  - We cannot go all the way to safety-critical requirements and complete traceability, partly because we cannot pay for the tools.
  - Our (initial) goal should be to provide a sound basis for someone who wants to take OSS software to the safety critical level to begin from. This means providing at least some requirements and traceability for the software we produce.
- GitLab 12.10 adds requirements management, and they aim to compete with Jama. Can we use this?
  - Most ROS software uses GitHub.
- Some prefer to keep requirements close to the source code, which trice does.
- Mapless will come up with a simple repository containing some sample requirements files to show how they think the tool could be used.


## Action items

- [Mapless to produce sample repository for discussion](https://github.com/ros2/safety_working_group/issues/10)

[Open action items](https://github.com/ros2/safety_working_group/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Ameeting_action_item)
