# Working group meeting 20191121

## Attendees

- Geoffrey Biggs
- Ingo Luetkebohle (Bosch)
- Arne Nordmann (Bosch)
- Shawn Schaerer (Northstar Robotics)
- Zakaria

## Notes

- Bosch will provide some safety pattern catalogues from the automotive world
- DDS might have some built-in support for cold and hot standbys that is complex to use and not exposed through the `rmw` layer.
  We could possibly try to show how to use this correctly and provide a mechanism for using it easily.
- Should we do something about what nodes can be used with these safety patterns?
  There are two aspects to this: one is reviewing commonly-used nodes for their safety-relevant aspects, and the other is looking at commonly-used nodes and identifying which patterns are appropriate to use with them.
- Our goal is not to provide safety-certifiable software, but to show how to structure the software and provide exemplars of this, with people who actually build safety-certified systems ultimately producing their own implementations to a higher level of rigour.
- The WG needs to make it clear that our goal is not to teach people how to do safety, and that we are not going to safety-certify ROS.
- Shawn has produced diagrams for the redundancy architecture documented in IEC 61508.
  They are being provided in a pull request.
- Pattern assignments:
  - 1oo1: Shawn Schaerer
  - 1oo2: Arne Nordmann
  - 1oo2D: Ingo Luetkebohle
  - 1oo3: Geoffrey Biggs
- Patterns are due on the 20th of December.
  Interim status report in the next meeting to identify issues and clear blockers.
