# Working group meeting 20200528

- Doorstop does not support one-to-many for software to implementation. We would need to send in a patch.
- Impact analysis of requirement changes *one requirements* is already supported in Doorstop, but impact analysis through to implementation is not supported. The work done by Ternaris is relevent here, as they have similar capability already.
- Doorstop does not currently differentiate between verification requirements and other requirements. This means that all the verification tracing is possible, but it is difficult to identify verification-related information separate from implementation-related information. Instead of the simple textual search that Doorstop has, we might want to have a satisfies link and a verifies link.
- `rmtoo` is effectively a weaker, older, unmaintained version of Doorstop. It came from the Automotive Linux work on SIL2 Linux. We might be able to get some ideas for change management, linking, tracing, etc. from it.
- CI integration (from Philipp)
  - Testing CI integration using Doorstop's checking for tainted requirements (impact analysis) and identify requirements that need to be reviewed due to a change in parent requirements.
  - Currently have CI set up so that the build fails if there are unreviewed, impacted requirements.
  - A trace report is also generated by the CI, e.g. https://maplessai.gitlab.io/external/requirements-testing/. This is useful for reviewers to do their reviewing.
  - Merge request templates should have a checkbox for requirements being atomic, unambiguous, etc., and traced requirements being reviewed.
- As a tool, Doorstop looks useable. What we need to think about now are processes, such as when requirements must be reviewed, etc.
  - We cannot prescribe processes for other projects, but we could document best practices for using Doorstop.
  - We could look to adding something about design documentation and requirements management to REP 2004. We must have tools and processes ready to go before we propose the changes, and probably a working example with one of the core packages, e.g. `rmw` due to its nature as an interface library and the potential interest of ADLINK.
    - This is a case of after-the-fact safety, which is generally known to be hard and some people consider impossible. However there is nothing we can do to avoid this problem - and we are not trying to achieve safety certification, just ease the QA process for users of ROS.
  - Having a template for a semi-formal design document would be useful.
- We need to talk with Ternaris about what we need to and can merge, and what shortcomings there are in Doorstop that still need to be solved.
  - e.g. Ternaris has a tool that can extract this information
- We should ask Apex.AI and Ternaris if they have any design documentation and requirements best practices they can share.

##  Action items

- Mapless will begin producing a list of features we need to start porting to or adding to Doorstop; communicate with Ternaris about this.
- Geoff will begin putting together a proposal for changes to REP 2004 to identify what we need to make possible before we can make it required by REP 2004.
- Geoff to ask Apex.AI if they have any learnings and best practices about design documentation that they can make open for the ROS community to learn from.
